# Senate Overview and Structure
**Introduction:** The University of Edinburgh's Senatus Academicus (Senate) is a body of around 300 members which guides the academic direction of the university through policy. Membership consists of professors, non-professorial academic staff, student representatives, and other ex officio members (such as heads of schools). It holds in-person meetings at least three times per academic year for three hours at a time. Each official Senate meeting is preluded by two weeks of virtual E-Senate, which pertains to discussion of informational documents, requests observation from Senate members on a document, and serves as preparation for the upcoming Senate meeting. Agendas, papers, and minutes for each Senate/E-Senate meeting dating back to the 2015-2016 academic year are stored on the university's [Registry Services website](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/senate/agendas-papers).

<br />

## Committees
The Senate has three primary committees: the Education Committee, Academic Policy and Regulations Committee (APRC), and the Quality Assurance Committee (QAC). The committees have smaller task groups which focus on accomplishing individual goals (such as examining data about student progression and retainment), but task groups not a necessary aspect of a committee and their existence vary by year.

The senate has additional committees for which the agendas, papers, and minutes are not publicly available. These are the Senate Business Committee, the Honorary Degrees Committee, and the Senate Exception Committee. The Business Committee creates the agenda for Senate meetings and critically examine papers before deciding to pass them on to the Senate. The Honorary Degrees Committee reviews nominations for honorary degrees and fellowships and recommends recipients for the Senate's approval. The Exception Committee makes urgent business decisions between Senate meetings as needed. As this project is focused on hyperlinking the papers associated with the university Senate, these additional committees will not be relevant.

#### Education Committee
The Education Committee's main responsibility is to develop policy and strategy concerning learning, teaching, development of curriculum, and promotion of new teaching technology/methods. It also critically engages with student feedback on experience. The Education Committee was created following the 2018-2019 academic year, and absorbed two prior committees: the Learning and Teaching Committee (LTC) and the Researcher Experience Committee (REC). The LTC existed from 2012-2019 and widely had the same formal goals as the current Education Committee. Examples of accomplishments resulting from the committee are enhancing training for personal tutors and development of the university's lecture recording system. The REC existed from 2015-2019 and had the primary goal of shaping postgraduate research programs and enhancing research experience. The agendas, papers, and minutes for the LTC and REC are stored seperately from those of the Education Committee.

Links to *Agendas, Papers and Minutes* related to the Education Committee:
* [Education Committee](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/education/agendas-papers)
* [Learning and Teaching Committee](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/education/archive/learning-teaching/agendas-papers)
* [Researcher Experience Committee](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/education/archive/researcher-experience/agendas-papers)

#### Academic Policy and Regulations Committee (APRC)
The APRC's main responsibility is to create, review, and update academic regulatory framework. An example of a past focus of the committee was to shape policy around coursework extensions and special circumstances. It is also responsible for matters of student conduct and discipline. [Link](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/academic-policy-regulations/agendas-papers) to the APRC's agendas, papers, and minutes. 

#### Quality Assurance Committee (QAC)
The QAC's main responsibility is to create/maintain an academic quality assurance framework, ensure the University of Edinburgh's achievement of external quality requirements such as the UK Quality Code, and to develop and review academic collaborations with partner institutions. [Link](https://registryservices.ed.ac.uk/academic-services/committees/quality-assurance/agendas-papers) to the QAC's agendas, papers, and minutes.

<br />

## Storage of *Agendas, Papers and Minutes*
#### Current Storage of Papers
The agendas, papers, and minutes for the university's senate is currently stored as a PDF document and is separated by committee, with each committee (or the Senate/e-Senate) having a corresponding page on the University of Edinburgh's Registry Services website. Finding related papers is not easily navigable, and requires users to have prior knowledge of the Registry Services website's structure to efficiently locate the necessary referenced document.

For instance, section e-S 23/24 1B of the September 13-27 2023 E-Senate *Agenda and papers* directly references the 12 September 2023 meeting of the SQAC in regards to a report by Scottish Funding Council. However, a hyperlink to the corresponding paper from the SQAC meeting is not included. In order for users to find this paper, they must first go to the "Senatus Academicus" homepage, then to "Role of the Senate and its Committees," then to "Quality Assurance Committee" under the "Delegated authority" subsection, then to "Agendas, papers and minutes," then scroll down to the 2023-2024 meetings, then select the 12 September 2023 document, and finally located the section within the paper which references the Scottish Funding Council report. 

For users not intimately familiar with the website's structure and user flow, finding related Senate decisions may be a time consuming process which impedes research speed. It is therefore necessary to come up with an alternative solution of storing papers which prioritizes centralization of documents.

#### Current Extent of Hyperlinking
Although there is some level of hyperlinking within Senate documents, its existence and efficacy is inconsistent. Again taking the September 13-27 2023 E-Senate *Agenda and papers* as an example, we can find instances of including links in a footnote rather than creating a hyperlink and stale hyperlinks. An example of including a link in a footnote is in the section "Annual Report to the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) on Institution‐led Review and Enhancement Activity 2022/23." The reference to the March 2022 meeting of the SQAC is linked in a footnote rather than being included as a hyperlink in the text. An example of a stale hyperlink is in section e-S 23/24 1F, which refers to the [Senatus Academicus (Senate) Election Regulations](https://www.ed.ac.uk/sites/default/files/atoms/files/senateelectionregulations_approved2.12.19amended8.2.23.pdf). The hyperlink (which is provided in the prior sentence) leads users to a page which reads "Page not found".

Additionally, taking the October 11 2023 Senate meeting as an example, we can see vast swaths of the document which lack any hyperlinks. The paper totals to 118 pages of dense internal governance documentation, yet has less than 20 hyperlinks throughout it. There are many occurances where hyperlinks would be helpful, such as a reference to Section 6.1 of the Higher Education Achievement Report (HEAR) in the Annual Report of the Senate Standing Committees, yet are simply not included.

The current extent of hyperlinking is inadequate and lacks maintainence. Users who may be searching for a relevant documents regarding a particular topic are required to manually search through other Senate papers to find what prior decisions led up to the current discussion. It is therefore necessary to find an alternative solution that allows for users to quickly search for required information.

#### Main Issues to be Solved/Motivation of Project
The goal of this project is to develop a prototype web application for presenting, searching and hyperlinking university Senate papers. In terms of presentation, the main concern to be solved is centralization. Users should be able to easily navigate between all Senate documents, including from the various committees and from the archives of prior committees such as the LTC. In terms of search, users should be able to quickly find sections of papers relevant to specific keywords they are interested in, such as "School of Informatics" or "risk policy." They should also be able to filter the papers by year or committee to aid in efficient search. Finally, in terms of hyperlinking, the main concerns to be solved are consistency of linking vs hyperlinking, dealing with stale links, and automating hyperlinking between related Senate papers (particularly in instances when another Senate/committee paper is explicitly referenced). There is also a question of to what extent hyperlinking should be added, perhaps also extending to other university websites, or even further. This may require alteration of how the papers are stored on the Registry Services website, as altering a PDF document requires downloading the document, changing it, and reuploading it.
